[Music]
the death tool is rising nonstop as
Israel intensifies its strikes pushing
into Central and Southern Gaza the Hamas
ran Health Ministry says over
21,000 have been killed and the vast
majority of gazin are
[Music]
displaced it's just destruction around
us as you see the buildings are
destroyed this is not a war it's a
genocide it's more than a war we can't
even describe it the war has left much
of Gaza and ruins destroying nearly one
in five
buildings and there's no end in sight
said on eliminating Hamas Israel's
military said it is expanding its ground
offensive and released footage showing
its Elite troops in
Gaza the fighting is taking place in a
complex
area therefore the war will continue for
many more
months and we will work with different
methods so that we can hold on to our
achievements for a long
time on the other side in Jerusalem a
former Israeli settler hopes a long-term
plan will also include her return to
Gaza she was forced to leave the strip
nearly two decades ago when Israel
withdrew all its security forces and
settlements there's a deep emotional
tension Because deep inside we dream of
returning there this is our home but do
I know what will
happen the return of Israeli settlers to
Gaza is not part of Israel's plan so far
but some here say it needs to be part of
Israel's strategy to maintain long-term
rule they're not talking about it yet in
the Israeli government but this is
something that can happen because there
might be no choice the IDF will have to
rule in Gaza in any case you can't rule
if you don't have settlements there it
is still not clear who exactly would
govern a postwar Gaza or what Israel's
plan is for lasting
peace let's take a step back and take a
look at the human Arian situation
currently in Gaza I'm very pleased to
welcome Dr Margaret Harris from the
World Health Organization for more on
this it it has now been more than 11
weeks since the fighting began in Gaza
last Friday the UN Security Council
passed a resolution urging more
humanitarian Aid uh quickly delivered
has it become easier to get that kind of
humanitarian assistance to those who
need
it no because there's ongoing War air
strikes damage to the roads it's
extremely dangerous to move around it
all we are sending um missions to the
north to the center taking enormous
risks our staff are telling us of the
losses of their family members and and
when we take our medical supplies to
hospitals our trucks are stopped
surrounded by starving people uh just
wanting to know if we've got food and
opening the boxes to see if we've got
food it's at becoming more and more
difficult every day because the
bombardment continues and the starvation
continues and the illness
increases now I want to put to you uh
something that was brought up by the
Israeli government uh today a
spokesperson uh today blamed blamed the
UN and Hamas for Aid not not reaching
Gins he said Aid simply isn't reaching
the people who need it because Hamas is
hijacking it Andra covers up for it what
is your response to
that we have not seen this we send our
missions and as I said it's not getting
the a the getting the a across is
difficult because of the complexities of
the checks it's a very slow process but
the real difficulty is Distributing it
in Gaza because this is a very dangerous
place there are bombardments all the
time if we truly and if all sides are
truly committed to providing genuine Aid
to the people of Gaza there would be a
ceasefire right now and give us a sense
of the humanitarian situation on the
ground I know I've asked you this
question many times before but 11 11
weeks into fighting having started can
you tell us how things are looking in
Gaza worse and worse by the Day by the
minute uh the hospitals are doing what
they can but they are uh overwhelmed
they're the ones that are open at the
moment we've been able to support up to
13 Hospitals now to just keep going a
lot of them are not even able to accept
new patients but are trying to look
after those they have what they've also
become is shelters Refugee shelters you
mentioned the hospital Al alal that had
a a bombardment nearby it's got 14,000
people just Sheltering there because
they don't know where else to go they've
been displaced over and over again um
and and and as I said people are
starving they dehydrated they're living
in filthy conditions really really
filthy conditions and we're seeing the
diseases that are created by that uh
we're seeing a huge rise in in diarrhea
cases we've reported more than 130,000
of those we're seeing um huge rise in
respir problems bronchitis coughs colds
especially among the small children with
more than 150,000 cases of that but also
uh jordis which is probably hepatitis
menitis many many severe diseases and
also we're seeing surgeons having to
amputate limbs because there is nobody
who can do the the complex work to save
those limbs so basically the people of
Gaza are being bombed back into the
middle AES
well thank you for taking the time to
speak with us on DW that is Dr Margaret
Harris from the
wh